---
layout: post
title: "How to Work a Room"
description: My notes of the book by Susan Roane
image:
  feature: https://farm2.staticflickr.com/1346/5119057458_d7ae2bf9d6_o.jpg
  description: Image description here
  creditName: blakespot
  credit: https://www.flickr.com/photos/blakespot/5119057458/sizes/o/
permalink: /blog/how-to-work-a-room
date:   2016-03-30 18:01:48
categories: reference
tags: book soft-skills
comments: true
published: true
---

The biggest takeaway from the book is seeing the benefit of working a room. The actual execution covered in the later parts of the book — what to talk about, how to behave — are less crucial. As long as you have common sense, it doesn't matter how you socialise. Just socialise!

# Turning chores into choices

Chapter 4, *Benefits: The Bonuses of Being There*, is the most important chapter in the book. A lot of the times when we receive an invitation to an event that we feel like we can't decline, it feels like a chore, and we end up dragging ourselves there, sometimes late, and come home in the end feeling like we've wasted three hours of our lives.

To work a room effectively, we need to know why we are doing it. There should be something in it for us, and if there isn't, it's ok to choose not to attend. Remember to always reply to invitations on time.

If you have decided to attend, you should know why. 

Ask yourself what you would like to accomplish — both on a professional level and on a personal level.

Then do it!

> Or we walk into a meeting, convention or conference and look around the room for a familiar face. And we'll talk to that person the entire time rather than approach "strangers" in the room.
> The problem is that, as a result, we also miss tremendous business, career and social opportunities...
> Life is too short, and time too precious, to spend an hour or two squandering opportunities and, in the process, having a bad time.

Side: Focusing on the benefits on an event helps generate enthusiasm and keeps us on track, but genuine warmth and interest in other people are what makes us succeed.

# Breaking and entering

Avoid approaching two people who look as though they are having an intense conversation. Approach groups of three or more who look like they are having fun. Position yourself close to the group. Give only facial feedback to the comments being made. When you feel yourself included, either by verbal acknowledgement or eye contact, you are free to join the conversation. But don't switch the conversation to you or your agenda.

Look for people standing alone at the edges of the room.

At parties, do not sit with people you know. If you just wanted to spend time with your friends, you could have gone out for a pizza. This is a chance to meet seven to nine new people, don't miss the opportunity! Be the table host. Introduce yourself to the group and ask the others to go around the table and do the same.

# What to talk about?

> Take five minutes to think about what you have in common with people at an event *before* you get there... You already have something in common with the other people in the same room, under the same roof: the purpose of the vent, the traffic, the parking and the food, just to name a few.

Although we realise that it is bad manners to monopolise a conversation, it's equally bad manners not to talk enough. Small talk!

> Your first topic of conversation with a new person probably will not be nuclear disarmament, famine or the possibility of world economic collapse – unless you are at an event organised around these issues. As interesting and spirited as those conversations may be, they are *not* the discussions to have at events. 

Parties [events] are not the proper venue for holding serious discussions.

Large talk is for business negotiations, medical matters, things that involve money, health, life, the law... Small talk should intrigue, delight, amuse, and fill up time pleasantly.

Observe, Ask, Reveal.

## Conversation starters:

* Something unique or interesting the other person is wearing, a lapel pin, brooch or tie.
* The organisation or cause
* The venue
* The view
* The food (presentation, calories, taste or lack thereof – but no whining)
* A comment such as "I had a great lunch last week at the convention and visitors bureau event."
* Responding with a question like "Oh? Where was it held?"
* Upbeat, unusual observations about what is happening in the room, the crowd, where people are positioned, whether they seem to be enjoying themselves, the traffic or the parking
* At a party, ask how do you know the host?
* And anything else, just about anything will work if it's delivered with a smile and honest interest. Try "Hi!" or "Hello", or "Hey, how are you doing?"

# Keep the conversation going

* Pick up on key words mentioned that hint at an interest the other person has. If you don't know anything about that interest, borrow a relevant story from a friend who has the same interest.
* Read one newspaper a day. A good conversationalist is well read, well versed and well rounded. He or she knows what is going on in the world and can talk about the issues. Information is power. Build a knowledge bank that lets you contribute to conversations with more ease and interest. You don't need to be an expert on everything, but you do need enough knowledge of general topics to pose intelligent questions. 
	* Start with your favourite section of the newspaper first — even if it is the comics.
	* Scan the headlines and first paragraphs if you're pressed for time. 
	* Read the business section. It isn't nearly as technical or intimidating as some people suspect. The business of newspapers is to sell newspapers, and they can't do this if they don't write things that regular people can comprehend and find interesting.
	* Read the sports pages! If the World Series is being played in the city where you are doing business, you should at least know what teams are involved and what is happening.
	* Read the lifestyle section, which provides a wealth of information. Much of it is perfect for starting and continuing conversation.
* Read newsletters, professional journals and e-zines if you're going to a company-specific event. Should you recognise a member from a photo you saw in the organisation's newsletter or blog, you can bet that person will appreciate and welcome you.
* Take notes of the stories others tell us, of quotes from TV shows and books and public figures, and attribute the source.
* If someone's last name is familiar, name drop, they might be related to someone you know
* Adapt conversation to the person by age, interest and/or profession.

# Extricating yourself

Many of us feel uncomfortable with ending a conversation. But actually, the etiquette of social events is that we are *supposed to circulate*. Parties are for mingling and circulating. It's rude to latch on to one person and sit in the corner with that person for the rest of the evening.

Spend no more than eight to ten minutes with any one person.

Graceful exits:

1. Wait until *you* have just finished a comment. Then smile, extend your hand for a closing handshake and say, "Nice meeting you. It's interesting that you heard all the great comedians because you bartended in the Catskills". When you summarise the conversation in a short sentence, it shows you have been listening.
2. "I could monopolise you all evening, but I know other people will want to meet you."
3. If you spoke to someone who was neither open nor enjoyable, pleasantly say, "I hope you enjoy the rest of the ... (conference, meeting, party)"
4. Take them along. Introduce your new pal to other people.

Once you extricate yourself, visibly move one quarter of the room away. It underscores the fact that you really did have someone to see or something to do and that you didn't leave that person simply because you were bored. Approach another group or someone else standing alone.

Be sure to thank the host or hostess before you leave the event.

# Keep in touch

> When a particular comic makes me think of someone I know, I often send it to that person. It's a good way to stay in touch, and humour is a wonderful way to connect.
> When I read about clients, colleagues and business associates in online articles, I send the link with an email note of congratulations. I then send "an extra hard copy for the relatives". It's something that I appreciate receiving as well.

> If I take the time to plan the menu, shop, clean the house, cook, serve the dinner and clean up, that may take four to six hours! My guest certainly has a few moments to write me a two-sentence note or card to say thank you.

Send thank-you notes for the tangibles — gifts, checks, meals — and for the intangibles — ideas, leads, referrals, advice, support and listening. Sending handwritten thank-yous makes a lasting, memorable and positive impression. 

# How not to work the room

> He appeared to be knowledgable, charming and smooth — on the surface. But as we spoke, his eyes moved around the room to see who else was there, and I sensed he wasn't about to waste time with people he didn't consider important.
> Everything Richard did seemed calculated. He heard my words and responded, but he didn't really listen.

If you can tell someone is working a room, that person is doing it wrong!

Other advice include:

* Don't joke at someone's expense
* Don't force your own agenda or treat people like prospects
* Don't use your introduction as a commercial
* Don't complain or brag
* Don't offer unsolicited feedback
* Don't control conversations or ask a barrage of questions
* Don't ignore anyone based on outer judgements, you never know who they know

# tl:dr? Be kind, to everyone.